So you'll take the boy
with you, huh?That's the plan.
God is still here,
and the boy is proof!
Fallou: That's what faith is.
If you need proof,
you've already lost it.
♪♪
I can see them, the fireflies.[Sighs]
I mean, using your dead daughter
to manipulate me --
Daryl: Ash is gonna be the one
flying us home.
This plane will never get off
the ground with all four of us.
So, Paris,
we have a problem.
♪♪
You know, where I'm from,
they say you blow on those
to set your wishes free.
In French, it's called
pissenlit,
because if you eat one,
it makes you pee in bed.
[Scoffs]
Pissin the lit.
[Chuckles] Here.
Found this
in the trunk of a car.
I did what I could
with the strings.
[Playing notes]
Père Jean teach you how
to play that?
He liked '70s rock.
Neil Young, Joan Baez,
Led Zeppelin.
You're not coming, are you?
Somebody has to stay behind.
It makes sense
that it's me.
You want to talk about it?
Why? It won't change
your mind.
Every time something
good happens,
something bad comes
to ruin it.
It's only temporary.
Then why does it feel
like forever?
It's a long way to America.
You'll be all alone.
I've been alone before.
A lot of times.
I'll make it back.
You can't promise that.
Hey.
Look at me.
I can promise that.
I'm gonna see you again.
All right?
Go ahead.
Play something.
[Playing "You Can't Always
Get What You Want"]
♪♪
♪ You can't always get
what you want ♪
Together: ♪ You can't always get
♪ You can't always get
what you want ♪
♪ But if you try sometimes
♪ You just might find ♪
♪ You get what you need ♪
♪♪
How's it looking?
I want you to know that
I won't be coming with you.
I want you to take Daryl
and the boy.
Why should I help
any of you?
You bring me here
under bullshit pretenses.
For what?
So now I should do you
a huge fuckin' favor?
You want to punish me,
I get it.
But you won't be doing
any worse
than I'm already doing
to myself.
♪♪
Please don't take it
out on them.
♪♪
[Sighs]
Okay.
Yes.
[Horse snorting]
[Chuckles]
♪♪
[Walker growling]
[Walkers growling softly]
♪♪
Good.
[Snarling]
♪♪
Fallou: Codron!
[Speaks French]
♪♪
[Sets gun down]
[Arrow whistles]
[Gunshot]
♪♪
[Grunting]
I don't think he likes me.
[Door closes]Who, Ash?
He's got a lot
on his mind.
Because you lied to him.
Something like that.
And now you
feel bad, too.
♪♪
People shouldn't lie.
No, they shouldn't.
But I'm glad you did.
If you told Ash the truth,
you might not be here.
And neither would Daryl.
You have a really special way
of seeing things, don't you?
You're gonna make a lot
of friends at the Commonwealth.
Do you think Daryl will be
able to make it back by himself?
♪♪
Daryl: What kind of hose
are we looking for?
Ash: Something long enough
to run from an external tank
so we don't have to stop.
Yeah, Greenland.
I heard about that.
Hey, look, man, I don't
really need any help here.
All right. Fair enough.
What happened
to his parents?
Who, Laurent?
He's an orphan.
I'm sorry about your kid.
Carol told me.
I was there
when she lost Sophia.
I wouldn't wish that
on anyone.
Yeah.
You lose a...
a wife or a husband,
you're a widower, a widow.
♪♪
But if you lose a kid...
there's no word for that.
Maybe that's too hard
of a thing to name.
You got kids?
No.
Well, maybe
it's a good thing
you don't have
that worry.
I worry about plenty.
♪♪
You know, you came here
to save a kid.
You still can.
♪♪
Wait a minute.
Hey.
[Walker snarling]
♪♪
I guess I am kind of glad
you're coming with us.
[Snarling]
♪♪
Anna: I used to live on this
street when I first moved here.
Ran away, actually,
from our little village
to be a singer.
Hated my mother for
not believing in me,
but maybe she was just
trying to protect me.
If she could only
see you now.
I wonder
if she'd be ashamed.
Where is she anyway?
Back home, I guess.
In Karelia.
♪♪
[Tires squeal]
[Guns cocking]Man: Get out!
[Car door opens, tires squeal]
[Men shouting]
You want
to get us killed?
♪♪
[Speaks French]
Perhaps you remember me
from that cesspool you operate.
Oh, yeah.
You came with a man
and left alone.
I want the same thing
he wanted.
I didn't help him.
Why help you?
♪♪
[Gunshot, driver groaning]
[Blows landing]
♪♪
Ouch.
[Scoffs]
I know they have
an airplane.
Help me find them,
or your friend's pretty face
goes next.
♪♪
This is why
I don't make friends.
And I don't give
without getting
something good in return.
What about your life,
Mm.
I could take it...
or leave it.
♪♪
What do you want?
To go home,
back where my people are.
So...
...I help you find the boy,
I get the plane...
and the pilot.
♪♪
So, this way, we're
going to be able to talk.
This tells us how high we are.
And this tells us what
direction we're going.
Laurent: And this?It's how we communicate.
[Conversation continues
indistinctly]
Pretty good
with him, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, he is.
Yep.
Brought you something.
No way.[Chuckles]
You lug this
all the way here?
Well, he allowed
one carry-on, so...
Yeah. Thank you.
Daryl, listen.
Look, I know what
you're gonna say.
You ain't staying.
It's the right thing
for everybody.
It's already settled.I'm going to get you home
even if it means
me staying behind.
Because if anything
happens to you,
I'm not going to be
able to live with myself.
He's right.
Daryl has been here longer
on the ground.
He knows how to survive.
And you know the plane.
You can help me.
Ash, this isn't
about that.
It is about whatever can get
that kid back to a safe place.
Looks like you're
outnumbered.
[Distant bang]
Shh.
♪♪
-Easy, Fallou.
-Easy, easy.
Jacinta's still alive.
They are coming for Laurent.
You ready to fly?
You gotta go right now.
Come on.
Help me get this wall down.
[Doors opening]
Daryl: All right.
♪♪
All right.
That's good right there.
I gotta test the engine.
♪♪
Plane is on the other side,
near the racetrack.
They won't see you coming
this way.
[Men shouting in French]
♪♪
Anna: It doesn't look
like it used to...
does it?
It will be beautiful
again someday.
I hope you get
to go home soon.
So, which way?
Through the garage.
It will take you to the track.
♪♪
Okay. Go ahead.
Lead the way.
♪♪
After you.
[Clattering]
[Murmuring, guns cocking]
[Walkers growling]
♪♪
[Screaming, gunfire]
Aah!
♪♪
You knew.
Dixon will kill you.
No. God is on our side.
God gave up on us
a long time ago.
[Walkers snarling]
♪♪
[Body thuds]
Man: Move, move.
♪♪
[Hyperventilating]
[Breathing slows]
[Airplane engine rumbling]
♪♪
Carburetor's
a little stubborn.
I gotta make some tweaks.
Pop out.
A skip means that --There's air in the fuel line.
That's right.
Just tightening the intake.
That ought to do it.
Sure about that?
Yeah.
♪♪
[Motorcycle engine revving]
Incoming!
Carol: They found us.
All right. Give us some time
to get down that runway.
Daryl: You got it.
♪♪
Hey, look at me.
I'll see you soon.
All right? I promise.
Take the gun.
[Men shouting in French]
♪♪
I know. Go.
[Engine sputtering]
Go on. Go.
[Engine turns over]Yes! Yes.
All right, let's go.
♪♪
Yo! Help me move this.
Okay!
♪♪
[Gunshots]
[Gunfire]
Aaaaaaaah!
♪♪
Are we good?
Yeah.
Yeah, we're good.
♪♪
[Shouts in French]
Look!
♪♪
[Gunshot]
[Laughs]
Ah!
♪♪
[Gasps] Shit.
[Bullet whistles]
♪♪
Come on, come on,
come on, come on.
[Exhales deeply]
♪♪
[Click]
Come on!
♪♪
[Gunshot]
[Breathing deeply]
[Laughs]
Suck it, motherfucker!
♪♪
[Gunfire]
[Breathing raggedly]
♪♪
I had it.
Yeah, I know.
♪♪
[Gunshot]
They say they'll be here
by sundown.
We can head out
in the morning.
Who are these people?
The couple I met
at the Demimonde,
They can help us get to England.
From there, you may
find a way across to America.
They speak English?They're from Scotland, so...
No.[Laughter]
No, no.
♪♪
Get it up.
Fallou, maybe your pals
could stop
pointing those things at us?
Oh. [Laughs]
Bonjour, mes amis.
This is Fiona and Angus.
They will be our guides
to the islands.
Good to see you.
Daryl, Codron,
Carol, and Akila.
Hiya.
Nice to meet youse.
Some supplies to get
through the checkpoint.
Aye. Supplies.
All right.
Wine. Bit of food.
Very good.
Aye.
That should be plenty.
[Chuckles] At least one
more than we need.
Oh.Oh!
[Laughter]
Angus: We were in
Edinburgh the first few years.
And Fiona said,
"The hell with it.
Let's get hitched."[Laughs]
I thought that Paris
would be romantic, you know.
We were young.Young and dumb.
[Laughs]
You know, I always
had this dream about France.
The history, the culture,
the food.
You know?
What was it really like
before the world
turned to shite?
In France? Parfait.
Well, most of the time.
Of course, some things were
not always so good.
I had these neighbors.
Les Desjardins, a White family.
They were so nice.
My food smelled bad.
I played music too loud.
I worked in hospital back then,
so I came and went at all hours.
They complained about it.
[Chuckles] Then
Monsieur Desjardin,
he lost his job.
Drank a lot.
Started calling me names.
Terrible words.
Telling me I should go
and live in la Goutte d'Or
with mypeople.
Then, boom.
The world changed.
We stayed in our flats,
hoping to hold out.
Wait for this terrible thing
to pass.
One night, I hear a knock
at my door.
I grab my weapon and look out.
It's him holding his
two-year-old child
limp in his arms, pleading in
his eyes for me to help.
He thinks she's dead, but no.
Her airway was blocked
and she passed out.
I got her breathing again.
She smiled at me.
And the father?
He took her and left.
But I saw gratitude
in his eyes.
So...the apocalypse put
an end to racism?[
[Chuckling]
Well, maybe it leveled
the field a tiny bit.
Only two kinds
of people now.
The dead
and the living.
We need more wood.
Fiona: Okay. Night-night.
Daryl: Night.
Uh...
♪♪
I'm sorry about
what happened to the nun.
She's probably
in a better place, though.
Like my brother.
His name was Michel.
It's a very old name
in France.
I used to laugh about that
with him.
He hated that.
♪♪
It was so hard
to see him that way.
♪♪
Having to...
finish him off.
♪♪
In a way, you --
you put an end to part
of yourself.
♪♪
Yeah, I can imagine.
You never told me
what happened.
When you killed Michel.
♪♪
I didn't kill him.
That girl beat me to it.
What?
What girl?
A skinny girl
on the road.
She was with some
old guy who...
He tricked me
into thinking he was blind.
[Chuckles]
She told me it was you.
[Scoffs] What'd you expect
her to tell you?
So, what, everything's
starting down in Marseille...
L'Abbaye...
La Maison Mère, le Nid,
the things I did...
♪♪
...all of that's
because of her?
Well, I guess she was
a pretty good liar.
♪♪
You all right?
They should be there
by now.
Ezekiel's probably
showing Ash around.
Maybe Judith is trying to teach
Laurent how to use her katana.
It wasn't easy there.
Never felt like home.
It'll be different this time.
We'll stay together.
[Voice breaking]
I can't remember her face.
♪♪
All I see
is of her after the farm.
♪♪
But her before,
that little girl that I
would read stories to...
...sing with and laugh with...
♪♪
...time took
that Sophia away.
All that's left is
what came out of the barn.
It's more than that.
Just seems that way.
I'm tired, you know.
It's been so long, it all
just got churned up again.
Her. Lizzie.
Henry.
Hey.
None of that's your fault.
Come here.
We keep going.
All right?
That's what we do.
♪♪
[Gulls crying]
So that's it, huh?
Angus:
Little bit worse for wear,
but we can still get through.
Carol: Wow!
Codron:
Le tunnel sous la manche.
Fiona: The Chunnel.
50 kilometers to England.
Took us about nine hours
to walk this on the way here.
Take care.You to.
We'll all be here
thinking of you guys.
Let's go.
Bon courage, mes amies.
I know you will get
where you are going.
Tu viens pas?
It's been a privilege
fighting with you guys.
[Both laugh]
Thank you for everything.
Frères d'armes
pour toujours.
What did he say?
He said you're
brothers-in-arms.
That's what I thought
he said.
Mm.
Your French is getting
better. [Chuckles]
♪♪
[Bats squeaking]
Daryl:
So what's England like?
Angus:
Ugh, England's shite.
That bad, huh?
Fiona: Actually, Army took over
and got things locked
down pretty quick.
The island was good
when we left.
Aye, but they're still English,
so they're shite.
Now, Scotland,
there's a wet fucking dream.
Carol: What the hell is that?
-Guano.
-Guano?
Bat shit.
Don't touch it.
Yeah, don't worry.
Ugh.
That stuff's
psychoactive.
We're under
the channel now.
Daryl: Hope
that ceiling holds.
Drowning is not anything
I had on my to do list.
Don't worry. Pressure will
crush you to death
before you get
your hair wet.
That's comforting.
Thank you.
How do we know
how far we've gone?
That yellow door leads
to a service tunnel.
There's one
every half kilometer.
Fiona: Only 91 to go.
Yo. Hold up.
That must be a checkpoint.
Codron: English?
Why so close to France?
To keep
out the fucking French.
Hey, relax, mate.
Just keep
your guns away.
Let me do the talking.
You'll just piss them off.
♪♪
Hello!
We're British.
Please don't shoot.
We come bearing gifts.
Angus, get it.
Yeah.Yeah, fine.
[Snarling]Vino. We've got vino.
God save the Queen.
♪♪
Daryl: Guess they're not going
to be needing the wine.
More for us.
♪♪
[Banging]
Shh.
♪♪
[Whirring]
Angus: And God said,
"Let there be"...
♪♪
They killed each other.
Why would they do that?
Maybe it's the guano.
If you breathe in too long,
you can start to see things,
start getting you paranoid.
People lose their minds.
♪♪
Let's keep moving.
Codron: What is this?
Fiona: Bioluminescence.
Some animals and plants
generate their own light.
Like fireflies.
Yeah, exactly.
[Growling softly]
Carol: Walker.
♪♪
All right.
Follow me.
Single file.
Keep quiet.
♪♪
[Growling]
[Groans]
You okay?
Don't worry about me,
froggy.
♪♪
Oh!
[Growling]
Got you, got you, got you.
[Walkers growling]
♪♪
What?
[Gunfire]
♪♪
[Distorted snarling]
[Gun clicks]
♪♪
[Gasps] Oh, God.
[Panting]
♪♪
[Sword clatters]
[Snarling]
♪♪
No. No!
No!
No! No!
No. Michel!
Michel!
Michel! No!
♪♪
No!
Where's Carol?
You killed my brother!
♪♪
[Growling softly]
[Growling]
♪♪
[Gasps]
[Walkers snarling]
♪♪
[Grunting]
[Snarling]
♪♪
[Grunts]
Aah!
Stop! Stop!
It's me.
Stop.
♪♪
Michel?
Michel! Michel!
♪♪
[Groans]
[Panting]
♪♪
Angus: Hey, mate.
Here.
Put it on.
♪♪
[Snarling]
[Sobs]
♪♪
[Sobbing]
There you are.
♪♪
Ugh!
Sorry, pal. There's not enough
masks for the lot of us.
We've got people waiting
for us back home, mate.
Just leave him here?
♪♪
Has it been so long?
[Carol sobs]
[Sighs]
♪♪
Can I...
Can I come with you?
♪♪
Angus: Fetch my pistol.Fiona: What?
Fetch my pistol in my bag!
Where's your bag?
I gave it to you,
all right?
Isabelle: You think
you've had enough.
That there's nothing left
inside you.
You think it's over?
But you won't die here.
♪♪
Not like him.
Remember when we first met?
What I told you?
Bet on hope.
♪♪
[Gun cocks]
[Fiona screams]
[Muffled whimpering]
[Head thuds, whimpering stops]
♪♪
[Panting]
Bon courage, Monsieur Dixon.
♪♪
Put that on.
Got it.
Are you okay?
I think so.
♪♪
Where's Codron?
He ran off.
♪♪
Let's go home.
Yeah.
♪♪
♪ You can't always get
what you want ♪
♪ You can't always
get what you want ♪
♪ You can't always get
what you want ♪
♪ But if you try sometimes
♪ You might find ♪
♪ You get what you need
♪ Oh, yeah ♪
♪ Yeah, oh ♪
[Blows]
[Wind blowing]
Zabel: "Au Revoir les Enfants,"
"Goodbye Children"
is the title of episode 6.
It references a great
old French movie,
and it had some themes that were
very relevant for this series.
It's also relevant
to the episode
because we are saying
goodbye to Laurent,
at least for the time being.
You're not coming,
are you?
Somebody has to
stay behind.
That whole section
was really moving.
It's Daryl being left
alone again.
That surprised me a little bit.
I was kind of gripped by that
because I'm like,
"Well, he started alone
washing up on a beach
and now he's getting left
alone again."
That's what it feels
like in the moment.
Go ahead, play something.
Scigliuzzi:
Yeah, I can play guitar.
I've been doing it for a year
and a half, maybe two years.
It was kind of hard
to play on that guitar on set
because it wasn't tuned,
but I think they wanted it
to not be tuned
because you wouldn't pick up
a guitar after 12 years
and just strum it,
and it would be perfect pitch.
The playfulness of
badly singing
this amazing song together,
this thread became visible
between the two of us,
which kind of connected us
like magnets.
And then it went to
a really sad place.
Percival: I think
the most important thing here
is with all the violence
and all the action
and all the thrill
and all the drama,
that you never lose sight of
that very simple human emotion
of two people saying farewell,
potentially for the last time.
I'll make it back.
You can't promise that.
I can promise that.
Scigliuzzi: I think
these two characters,
they grow on the sort of mentor
relationship in season two,
even more than in season one.
Reedus: Yeah, I mean,
the relationship
between Laurent and Daryl,
it's very similar
to the relationship
between Louis and I.
We've really bonded quite a bit.
We bond over funny things.
We tell jokes a lot.
But, yeah, our relationship's --
it's pretty strong.
He's a cool kid, for sure.
♪♪
Zabel: The Hippodrome
sequence was many days.
I think it was a full week
and multiple units.
It was probably
the hardest overall sequence
we filmed in the whole series.
[Speaking French]
It's one of the final big
events of the season.
Well, the action that happens
here in this location
is quite extreme.
There's a starting gate,
which is a horse starting gate
at the Hippodrome,
and that's gonna be the barrier
that they erect
to stop Jacinta and her warriors
from capturing Louis.
And there'll be
a fierce comeback.
[Yelling][Rapid gunfire]
Scigliuzzi: The sequence
is gonna be so epic,
because there's gonna be
people trying
to stop us getting away
and going up in the sky.
[Gunshots]
We're gonna
have an explosion as well,
and then Codron
is gonna throw a grenade,
and the car is gonna lift
on two kickers.
And then a motorbike
following a plane.
Then the plane taking off.
Levi:
There was this real plane.
This plane is able to fly,
you know.
So it's crazy.
I loved it.
Percival: Very often,
directors like their toys.
They like their ships and
their planes and their trains.
But they all
come with all sorts of problems.
You know, it's very complicated,
very difficult.
We've had to do
aerial photography.
on-board plane photography.
Some we've done live, some
we've done against green screen.
It adds enormous complexity,
but it's so rich in terms of
the scale and scope it gives us.
Fouassier:
The first thing we've done
is we did a big rehearsal
with the plane
to see if it was possible,
and then we worked
with a storyboarder
and we pretty much draw
the whole scene.
[Gunshot]
And here we are shooting it.
-[Laughs]
McBride: My fondest memory
of shooting
that whole
crazy Hippodrome scene
would be Carol laying
in the grass,
taking that shot, and then
looking over and seeing Daryl.
Daryl seeing Carol.
There was some strange happiness
happening there.
Zabel: The other thing
that I loved about it
that I didn't even realize
till I was standing there
when we were doing it,
I was like,
"All the characters are here."
All the stories came together
in this huge action piece.
Reedus: Having
everybody together,
injecting their tastes,
it's fun to do.
It makes it feel
like a whole pie.
Woman: The chunnel.
So we end the season
in the chunnel.
The chunnel is a tunnel
that connects France to England.
And the idea that
we're positing in episode 6
is that things in England
are better, ostensibly,
and that that would be a place
to get to,
and also a place it's
a little bit closer to home.
Reedus: It's
sort of like being in deep space
or like being really,
really low depths of the ocean.
It's claustrophobic,
but also pretty enlightening
at the same time.
Of course, the chunnel holds
certain unexpected risks
and jeopardies
that they encounter.
Levi: The zombies.
I was shocked by their beauty.
There are new zombies.
They are very different
and they are amazing.
Nicotero: We've been testing
these bioluminescent walkers.
This fungus that gets
underneath the skin glows,
and there was a lot of talk
at some point of like,
"Well, maybe we can put
some LEDs
in the prosthetics themselves."
The trick with that
is the minute the actor moves,
if he pulls a wire out,
then all of a sudden,
it doesn't work anymore.
It's really,
really challenging to get lights
underneath
the prosthetic makeup.
So we opted for some
black-light-activated paints,
and then we have
several full bodysuits,
and we would paint the suits
and then put layers
of translucent silicone
over top of them
to diffuse them.
So it looks like
they're actually glowing
from underneath.
[Squeaking]
Zabel: In the writers' room,
we were talking about things
that could happen
in the chunnel,
and we wanted something
a little crazy.
We were talking about bats, and
there'd be lots of bats there.
And then we talked about guano
and the effects
of ingesting guano.
So then we ran with that.
Levi: So it's a mix
between a kind of reality
and kind of dream nightmare,
you know?
And then it became about
how to give resolve
to the Daryl, Isabelle,
Daryl in France story.
And how do you also give
some kind of resolve,
although it ends mysteriously,
with Codron and his brother?
That's how we went bat[bleep]
crazy in the writers' room.
[Growling]
McBride:
Back in season four,
when they were going to kill
Carol off,
I had gone to the studio and
they made a latex of my face,
and he used that as, I guess,
the preliminary drafts
for some of the Carol walkers,
which is, I don't know, a little
disturbing to see,
but it's just enough
to not totally mutilate
Carol in her own mind.
Whatever perception she has
in that moment of hallucinating
and the depths
of her perception of herself,
I think it's just enough to make
that work for that scene.
Zabel: We are saying goodbye
to this sort of version
of Sophia
that is haunting Carol.
Her fight for survival
is -- is a tribute to Sophia,
and it always has been.
I think it's a punishment
that she may not even deserve,
and I think that's
what she needs to get beyond.
There's so many losses that she
had taken responsibility for.
Zabel: Not
that Sophia's gone forever,
but this idea that she
only sees Sophia as a walker,
that walker, Sophia, leaves.
You okay?
I think so.
I like it in this season
with just the two of them.
It's a full circle.
Nicotero: It's
an effortless relationship,
and you don't need a lot
of words to express
how they feel about each other.
And that's how close
those two characters are.
McBride: It's just the two
of them now.
They're not back
in the Commonwealth.
They're still in Europe.
What's on the other side
of the tunnel
and where are they gonna go
from here?
Carol: Let's go home.
♪♪